KOGITO-3944 - Quickstart with job services (#547)
kiegroup/kogito-examples: kogito-quickstarts/03-kogito-jobs-services-example/README.md

# 03.- Kogito Jobs Services Example

## Description

> This Quickstart showcases a implementation of the **Hiring** process with **Jobs Services**, to add timer between nodes of a process and to execute a job. Those jobs can be rescheduled or cancelled by interacting with Management console application.

Reviewer: to add a timer 
```suggestion
This Quickstart showcases a implementation of the **Hiring** process with **Jobs Services**, to add a timer between nodes of a process and to execute a job. Those jobs can be rescheduled or cancelled by interacting with the Kogito Management Console application.
```

> This Quickstart showcases a implementation of the **Hiring** process with **Jobs Services**, to add timer between nodes of a process and to execute a job. Those jobs can be rescheduled or cancelled by interacting with the Kogito Management Console application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This quickstart showcases an implementation of the **Hiring** process with **Jobs Services**, to add a timer between nodes of a process and to execute a job. The executed jobs can be rescheduled or canceled by interacting with the Kogito Management Console application.
```

> The required *Kogito and Infrastructure Services* for this example are:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, the required *Kogito and Infrastructure Services* are:
```

- Infinispan
- Kafka
- Kogito Data Index
- Kogito Jobs Services
- Kogito Management Console
- Kogito Task Console

## Running the Quickstart

### Prerequisites

> * Java 11+ installed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Java 11 or later is installed
```

> * Environment variable JAVA_HOME set accordingly

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Environment variable JAVA_HOME is set accordingly
```

> * Maven 3.6.2+ installed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Maven 3.6.2 or later is installed
```

> * Docker and Docker Compose to run the required example infrastructure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Docker and Docker Compose is set to run the required infrastructure.
```

### Starting the Kogito and Infrastructure Services

This quickstart provides a docker compose template that starts all the required services. This setup ensures that all services are connected with a default configuration.

You should start all the services before you execute any of the **Hiring** example, to do that please execute:

For Linux and MacOS:

> 1. Open a Terminal

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Open a Terminal.
```

> 2. Go to the Quickstart folder

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Go to the Quickstart folder.
```

```bash
cd <path_to_kogito_quickstart>/docker-compose
```

> 3. Run the ```startServices.sh``` script

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Run the ```startServices.sh``` script.
```

```bash
sh ./startServices.sh
```

> Once all services bootstrap, the following ports will be assigned on your local machine:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once all services bootstrap, the following ports are assigned on your local machine:
```

- Infinispan: 11222
- Kafka: 9092
- Data Index: 8180
- Jobs Services: 8580
- Management Console: 8280
- Task Console: 8380

> > **_NOTE:_**  This step requires the project to be compiled, please consider runing a ```mvn clean compile``` command on the project root before running the ```startServices.sh``` script for the first time or any time you modify the project.

Reviewer: runing -> running

Once started you can simply stop all services by executing the ```docker-compose stop```.

### Starting the Hiring example

> Once all the infrastructure services are ready, you can start the Hiring example by doing:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once all the infrastructure services are ready, you can start the Hiring example as follows:
```

> 1. Open a Terminal

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Open a Terminal.
```

> 2. Go to the Quickstart folder

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Go to the Quickstart folder.
```

```bash
cd <path_to_kogito_quickstart>/
```

> 3.- Start the example with the command

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3.- Start the example with the following command.
```

```bash
mvn clean package quarkus:dev
```

### Job service

> Jobs Service is a dedicated lightweight service responsible for scheduling jobs that aim to be fired at a given time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Jobs Service is a dedicated lightweight service, which is responsible for scheduling jobs that aim to be fired at a given time.
```

> > **_NOTE:_**  For more information about how to work with Jobs service on Management Console, please refer to the [Kogito Documentation](https://docs.jboss.org/kogito/release/latest/html_single/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **_NOTE:_**  For more information about how to work with Jobs service on Management Console, please refer to the [Kogito Documentation](https://docs.jboss.org/kogito/release/latest/html_single/https://docs.jboss.org/kogito/release/latest/html_single/#con-jobs-service_kogito-configuring).
```

> #con-jobs-service_kogito-configuring) page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

### Starting a Hiring Process with Job service

> In this example, a timer is added between *HR interview* and *IT interview* which executes a job. This job can be rescheduled or cancelled on Management console application

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this example, a timer is added between *HR interview* and *IT interview*, which executes a job. This job can be rescheduled or canceled on the Management console application.
```

<p align="center">
    <img width=75%  src="docs/images/process-with-job.png">
</p>

> In a Terminal you can execute this command to start a **Hiring** process for the "Harry Potter" candidate:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In a Terminal, you can execute the following command to start a **Hiring** process for the "Harry Potter" candidate:
```

```bash
curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -H "Accept: application/json" -X POST http://localhost:8080/hiring -d @- << EOF
{   
    "candidate": {
        "name": "Harry Potter",
        "email": "harrypotter@example.com",
        "salary": 30000,
        "skills": "Java, Kogito"
    }
}
EOF
```

In order to get to the job created on this example, you must complete the *HR interview* node which is a human task on the *Task Console*.

### Kogito Task Console

> To access the Kogito Task Console just open your browser and navigate to ``http://localhost:8380`` and you should be redirected to the **Task Inbox**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To access the Kogito Task Console, open your browser and navigate to ``http://localhost:8380``, and you are redirected to the **Task Inbox**.
```

<p align="center">
    <img width=75%  src="docs/images/task-console.png">
</p>

The human task can be cancelled on the Task Inbox.

<p align="center">
    <img width=75%  src="docs/images/task-inbox.png">
</p>

> **_NOTE:_**  For more information about how to work with Kogito Task Console, please refer to the [Kogito Documentation](https://docs.jboss.org/kogito/release/latest/html_single/#con-task-console_kogito-developing-process-services) page.

### Kogito Management Console

> To access the Kogito Management Console just open your browser and navigate to ``http://localhost:8280``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To access the Kogito Management Console, open your browser and navigate to ``http://localhost:8280``.
```

<p align="center">
    <img width=75%  src="docs/images/management-console.png">
</p>

> **_NOTE:_**  For more information about how to work with Kogito Management Console, please refer to the [Kogito Documentation](https://docs.jboss.org/kogito/release/latest/html_single/#con-management-console_kogito-developing-process-services) page.

Jobs can be accessed in two ways on Management console:

> You can navigate to process details page which has dedicated panel showing a list of jobs assocaited with the process instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can navigate to the process details page which has a dedicated panel showing a list of jobs associated with the process instance.
```

> You can navigate to the process details page which has dedicated panel showing a list of jobs associated with the process instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You can navigate to the process details page, which has a dedicated panel showing a list of jobs associated with the process instance.
```

<p align="center">
    <img width=75%  src="docs/images/JobsPanel.png">
</p>

> You can also check list of all the jobs available by navigating to jobs section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also check the list of all the jobs available by navigating to jobs section.
```

> You can also check the list of all the jobs available by navigating to jobs section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You can also check the list of all the jobs available by navigating to the jobs section.
```
